# Special Considerations for Sybase

**Genus App Services Transaction Service** is executed as part of the IIS Default Application Pool. Special considerations apply if you are using Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE). Due to problems with the Sybase Data Provider for .NET and database connection pooling, the IIS Default Application Pool must run as the **Local System** account rather than the preconfigured **Network Service** account. _If you are **not** using Sybase we recommend you to keep using the predefined Network Service account as this account has the least user rights that are required to run Web applications. This account provides the most security against attackers who might attempt to take over the computer on which the World Wide Web Publishing Service (WWW service) is running_

To start the **Management Console**, on your application server, on the **Start** menu, point to **All programs**, point to **Genus App Services**, and then click **Genus App Services Management Console**. To change from **Network Service** to **Local System**, point to **Internet Information Services** and click the plus sign to expand more folders, and then point to your local computer and click the plus sign to expand more folders. Point to **Application Pools** and click the plus sign to expand more folders. Point to **DefaultAppPool**, right click and select **Properties**, and then click the **Identity** tab. Under the **Application pool identity** group box make sure that **Predefined** is selected. Click the drop-down menu and select **Local System**. Click **OK** to save this change.