# Genus AS Recruitment Privacy Policy  

When you apply for a job at Genus, Genus will collect and use personal data about you during the recruiting and any hiring process. Your personal data may be retained and used by Genus for the purposes listed below. You are not required to provide any requested information but failing to do so may result in not being able to continue your candidacy for the job for which you have applied.  

## What information will Genus collect?  

The following categories of data will be collected by Genus:
* Your personal details.
* Data submitted in résumés / CVs, cover letters, or other written material.
* Data generated by interviewers and recruiters, based on their interactions with you or basic Internet searches.
* Data provided by third-party placement firms, recruiters, or job-search websites, where applicable.
* Recommendations provided on your behalf by others.
* Documentation required under immigration laws.
* Data about your prior employment, education, and where applicable, credit history, criminal records or other data revealed during background screenings.
* Data about your health or disability where it is relevant to your ability or availability to work or to a workplace accommodation, subject to legal limits on the timing of collection of such data and other applicable limitations.

By submitting your information, you acknowledge that all representations made by you are true and correct to the best of your knowledge, and you have not knowingly omitted any related information of an adverse nature. Providing any inaccurate information may make you ineligible for employment.

## What will Genus do with my personal data?

Genus will use your personal data for the following purposes:
* Assess your suitability for employment for the role for which you are applying, as well as future roles that may become available.
* Manage your application.
* Facilitate communication with you.
* Perform data analytics, including analysis of our applicant pool to better understand who is applying to positions.

Genus will not use your personal data for purposes that are incompatible with the purposes listed in this Privacy Policy, unless it is required or authorized by law.

## How long will Genus retain my personal data?

If you are given and accept an offer of employment by Genus, personal data collected during your pre-employment period will become part of your Genus personnel records, to be retained throughout and for a period after your employment with Genus. If Genus does not employ you, Genus may continue to retain and use personal data collected during the recruitment process to consider you for new positions, and to refer to an earlier application if you submit a resume or other information to Genus again in the future.

## What are my rights?

Genus employs organizational, technical, and physical security measures to protect your data from loss or misuse. If, despite Genus’ commitment and efforts to protect your personal data, you believe that your data protection rights have been violated, you have the right to file a complaint with a supervisory authority.

You also have the right to:
* Request a copy of personal data that you have provided to us.
* Request the rectification or completion of any of your personal data that would be inaccurate or incomplete.
* Request the erasure of your personal data.
* Request that we only process your personal data in limited circumstances, including with your consent.

To the extent that the processing of your personal data is based on your consent, you have the right to withdraw such consent at any time. You may contact our Recruitment Officer at [work@genus.no] if you want to exercise any of your rights in relation to your personal data, or if you have a question, comment, or complaint.
