## Throw Exception

Use this control to throw a custom exception to be handled by a following [catch exception](../blocks/catch-exception.md) block. A custom exception is useful to handle logical errors within an action orchestration, especially in complex scenarios where for example multiple calls to tasks are used to re-use logic.

To throw a custom exception, do the following:

1.  In the **Name** box, optionally enter a name. The name is displayed in the action tree, if a name is not entered, a summary of the control is displayed.
2.  In the **Description** box, optionally enter a description.
3.  In the **Error Code** box, enter the number which identifies this error. To enter a constant value, in the **Error Code** box click **Enter a number**, or press **F2**, and then enter a value. To select a field from one of your data sources, in the **Error Code** box, click **Select field or group**. In the **Select Field or Group** dialog box, select a field with the integer data type. To enter a formula, in the **Error Code** box, click **Enter a formula**. See the article [Enter a Formula in the Formula Editor](../../../common-concepts/advanced-expressions/formula-editor.md) for more information.
4.  In the **Error Message** box, enter a message describing the error. You can compose a text by typing text, and inserting formulas and fields from your data sources. The text can contain line breaks and sections used for collecting data from repeating groups. To compose a text, click **Error Message**. See the article [Generate Dynamic Values for Text Fields](../generate-dynamic-values-for-text-fields.md "Generate Dynamic Values for Text Fields") for more information.
5.  In the **Details** box, enter any details on the error. You can compose a text by typing text, and inserting formulas and fields from your data sources. The text can contain line breaks and sections used for collecting data from repeating groups. To compose a text, click **Details**. See the article [Generate Dynamic Values for Text Fields](../generate-dynamic-values-for-text-fields.md "Generate Dynamic Values for Text Fields") for more information.